SDC and Aggregation Specification
=========================================

Overview
--------

======================= ============================================================================================================================================================================================
Descriptive             Details
======================= ============================================================================================================================================================================================
Support Area            *Statistical Disclosure Control Expert Group*
                       
                        *sdc.queries@ons.gov.uk*
Version                 Draft 1
Methods reference       **Filled in by DST**
*Description*           **Aggregation of microdata to create magnitude tables.**
                       
                        **Statistical disclosure control for magnitude tabular outputs from business surveys.**
                       
                        **To define and apply primary rules to each cell in the table.**
                       
                        **Apply secondary suppression to protect cells failing primary rules from disclosure by differencing.**
                       
                        **The specification deals with releases where tables and figures are to be made freely available to the public. Publications constructed from administrative data sources are not covered.**
                       
                        **Business microdata should be maintained in a secure environment; usually only aggregations such as tables and figures can be sufficiently protected for publication.**
*Method theme*          Data Confidentiality
*Method classification* Protection of tabular releases
*Status*                *Draft*
*Inputs*                *Value of each cell in the table, cell frequency, values of top contributors*
*Outputs*               *Table suitable for publication*
======================= ============================================================================================================================================================================================

Method Specification
--------------------

Method Specification Amendments/Change Log
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

==================== ================================================ ========================== ========= ==============
**Document version** **Description**                                  **Author(s)**              **Date**  **Comments\***
==================== ================================================ ========================== ========= ==============
*1.0*                *First Draft*                                    Philip Lowthian            *20/5/20*
                                                                                                          
                                                                      Philip.lowthian@ons.gov.uk          
                                                                                                          
                                                                      Secondary Reviewer                  
                                                                                                          
                                                                      Jason Graves                        
                                                                                                          
                                                                      Jason.graves@ons.gov.uk             
*1.1*                *First Draft with minor revisions and additions* *As above*                 *9/6/20* 
\                                                                                                         
==================== ================================================ ========================== ========= ==============

**\*** *Comments can include whether two versions of the method are being used.*
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Summary
~~~~~~~

The specification covers data aggregation and statistical disclosure
control. Initially the data are to be aggregated to create magnitude
tables.

**Aggregation**

The Aggregation method has three stages to produce 4 required values for
any given cell.

The 4 values that are generated by the Aggregation Method are:

1. A value representing a count of the number of values that have been
   aggregated for that cell

2. A value representing the sum of the values that have been aggregated
   for that cell

3. A value representing the Top Value recorded in the aggregation
   process for that cell

4. A value representing the second Top value recorded in the aggregation
   process for that cell

**Statistical Disclosure Control**

Following aggregation, Statistical disclosure control (SDC) is applied.
This aims to ensure that as much detailed information as possible is
published while at the same time minimising the risk of disclosing
information on individuals, households, businesses or other units.

The use of SDC is a legal requirement for business statistics with the
aim being to find a satisfactory balance between confidentiality and
risk. When publishing, there is always an element of disclosure risk
unless outputs of extremely limited use are published.

The method described enables the application of statistical disclosure
control (SDC) to magnitude tables. Each cell in the table will consist
of the sum of a variable such as Turnover or the total import / export
value for all the businesses or statistical units which are members of
that cell.

Information may be disclosed due to:

-  **Low numbers of contributors in a cell in a table. At the simplest
   level if there are 2 contributors, each will know the value of the
   other if the cell total is published.**

-  **One or two businesses being particularly dominant within a cell. If
   they contribute a large proportion towards the cell total, relative
   to all of the other businesses belonging to that cell another
   contributor to the cell, or an external intruder, may be able to work
   out an individual contribution to within a small margin of error by
   using the published cell total.**

The application of SDC at its most reductive can be considered a 3-stage
process:

-  Assessment of the risk in magnitude tables: which cells are
   problematic due to low numbers of contributors in the cell and/or a
   dominant contributor. The rules are set at this stage.

-  Identification of disclosive cells by applying the rules to each cell
   in the table.

-  Protecting the table to enable publication. Suppression of cells
   defined as disclosive (primary suppression) and other cells to avoid
   disclosure by differencing (secondary suppression) and/or redesign
   the table.

Methodology is described both for cases when all responses are positive
and for when there is a combination of positive and negative responses.
It is to be applied to tables of magnitude values, typically a cell in
the table is a summation of value such as turnover relating to one or
more businesses.

**Strengths**

SDC is to be applied to many standard outputs from business surveys.
There are more steps described here than in previous disclosure control
methodologies which should enable more data to be published. The aim is
to allow for additional protection given by factors such rounding of
outputs and the presence of estimated values which were not considered
in the classical approach.

Much of the process including the application of rules to define whether
a cell is disclosive and secondary can be carried out by the Tau-Argus
program.

**Limitations**

-  This method is not suitable for frequency tales. It is also not
   applicable to non-tabular business outputs such as times series.

-  Disclosure control will not be required if all businesses or units in
   the data have agreed that their results can be published even if
   disclosive. This is usually assisted by the implementation of
   waivers.

-  This method may also not be applicable if the underlying microdata
   has had disclosure control applied. In that case any tables produced
   should be publishable following basic checks.

-  There is limited functionality when protecting linked tables, tables
   with a common row or column.

**Alternative Methods**

If the data are released under licence to a small number of users,
little or no disclosure control will be necessary.

Requirements and Dependencies
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Tabulation and SDC are applied to tables at the end of the production
process. Specifications for standard publications such as table
structure are determined in advance.

The standard steps in the statistical business process model (edit and
imputation, calculation of weights) are followed to produce the required
tables. At the final stage prior to producing tables for publication the
Aggregation and SDC algorithm is utilised. Following a successful
application, the data can be published.

For ad hoc requests, a similar process is followed although the
relationship between the requested publication(s) and previous releases
should be examined to ensure outputs cannot be differenced to find out
disclosive values.

Assumptions and Validity
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

It should be assumed that SDC is necessary for the outputs as previously
stated near the end of the production process. If all the businesses or
statistical units have agreed to their data being published (i.e.
waivers have been implemented), even if disclosive then SDC need not be
carried out.

If a proportion of businesses have agreed to this this should be
indicated in the input data.

Method Input
~~~~~~~~~~~~~

.. tabularcolumns:: |p{\dimexpr 0.10\linewidth-2\tabcolsep}|p{\dimexpr 0.10\linewidth-2\tabcolsep}|p{\dimexpr 0.10\linewidth-2\tabcolsep}|p{\dimexpr 0.10\linewidth-2\tabcolsep}|p{\dimexpr 0.10\linewidth-2\tabcolsep}|p{\dimexpr 0.10\linewidth-2\tabcolsep}|p{\dimexpr 0.10\linewidth-2\tabcolsep}|p{\dimexpr 0.30\linewidth-2\tabcolsep}|

.. rst-class:: longtable



A table prepared for publication. Details of the top contributors to
each cell will also be required.

The exact input format required will depend on the code used to carry
out SDC has been written.

**Aggregation**

=============================================================== ============================ =============================================== ================================ ================================================================= ==================================================================== ============================== ============================================
**Variable definition**                                         **Type of variable**         **Format of specific variable (if applicable)** **Expected range of the values** **Meaning of the values**                                         **Expected level of aggregation**                                    **Frequency**                  **Comments**
=============================================================== ============================ =============================================== ================================ ================================================================= ==================================================================== ============================== ============================================
*Response values for all variables required for each table.*    *Spanning variables.*                                                                                                                                                           *RU level responses are aggregated to form the weighted cell total.* *Monthly, quarterly, Annually* *The number of EGs in the cell is required.*
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   
                                                                *Response variable.*                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 *Ad-hoc*                      
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   
                                                                *Weights for each response.*                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       
*Number of values within a cell which are estimated or imputed* *Count*                                                                                                       *To be used in the first stage of the disclosure control process*                                                                                                    
=============================================================== ============================ =============================================== ================================ ================================================================= ==================================================================== ============================== ============================================

**Statistical Disclosure Control**

================================================================ ==================== =============================================== ================================ ========================= ==================================================================== ============================== =======================================================================
**Variable definition**                                          **Type of variable** **Format of specific variable (if applicable)** **Expected range of the values** **Meaning of the values** **Expected level of aggregation**                                    **Frequency**                  **Comments**
================================================================ ==================== =============================================== ================================ ========================= ==================================================================== ============================== =======================================================================
Table as created in Aggregation method.                                                                                                                                Each cell has 4 values.   *RU level responses are aggregated to form the weighted cell total.* *Monthly, quarterly, Annually* *Cells are flagged if one or more contributor is imputed or estimated.*
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    
Weighted total                                                                                                                                                         -Total                                                                                         *Ad-hoc*                      
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                                                       -Frequency                                                                                                                   
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                                                       -Top contributor value                                                                                                       
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                                                       -Second contributor value                                                                                                    
Number of reporting Units and Enterprise groups within each cell                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     *To enable the threshold rule to be applied*
================================================================ ==================== =============================================== ================================ ========================= ==================================================================== ============================== =======================================================================

.. _section-1:

Method Output
~~~~~~~~~~~~~

.. tabularcolumns:: |p{\dimexpr 0.10\linewidth-2\tabcolsep}|p{\dimexpr 0.10\linewidth-2\tabcolsep}|p{\dimexpr 0.10\linewidth-2\tabcolsep}|p{\dimexpr 0.10\linewidth-2\tabcolsep}|p{\dimexpr 0.10\linewidth-2\tabcolsep}|p{\dimexpr 0.10\linewidth-2\tabcolsep}|p{\dimexpr 0.10\linewidth-2\tabcolsep}|p{\dimexpr 0.30\linewidth-2\tabcolsep}|

.. rst-class:: longtable



Outputs from the application of primary rules

1. **Outputs from cells with positive cell values only**

======================================================================= ==================== =============================================== ================================ =================================================================================================================================================================================================== ================================= ============= ==============================================================
**Variable definition**                                                 **Type of variable** **Format of specific variable (if applicable)** **Expected range of the values** **Meaning of the values**                                                                                                                                                                           **Expected level of aggregation** **Frequency** **Comments**
======================================================================= ==================== =============================================== ================================ =================================================================================================================================================================================================== ================================= ============= ==============================================================
1.                                                                      Cell totals                                                          Positive number                  *Is the weighted cell total (*\ **T**\ *) zero or rounded to zero?*                                                                                                                                                                                 *Cell is safe if it meets the condition and can be published.*
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 
All cells in defined table.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       *If condition not met go to 2*
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 
Table can be up to 4? dimensions. Each variable can include hierarchies                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          
2.                                                                      Cell totals                                                          Positive number                  **Threshold rule**                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  *Cell is not safe. Requires protection.*
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 
All cells in defined table not accounted for in 1                                                                                                                             Is the number of **enterprise groups** (that contribute a non-zero value to the cell) within the cell less than **3** if the cell is sampled, less than **5** if the entire population is surveyed?                                                 *If condition not met go to 3*
3.                                                                      Cell totals                                                          Positive number                  Are the data rounded so that the rounding base of the outputs is greater than or equal to **25**\ % of the absolute value of the weighted cell total (**T**)?                                                                                       *Cell is safe if it meets the condition and can be published.*
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 
All cells in 2 which pass the threshold rule                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      *If condition not met go to 4*
4.                                                                      Cell totals                                                          Positive number                  Is the largest contribution (**X\ 1**) estimated?                                                                                                                                                                                                   *Cell is safe if it meets the condition and can be published.*
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 
All cells not accounted for in 3                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  *If condition not met go to 5*
5. All cells not accounted for in 4                                     Cell totals                                                          Positive number                  **P% rule**                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         *If condition is met then cell can be published.*
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 
                                                                                                                                                                              Is [(**T**-**X\ 1**-**X\ 2**)/\ **X\ 1**] greater than or equal to **0.1**?                                                                                                                                                                         *If not then protect*
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 
                                                                                                                                                                              **T** = cell total - weighted                                                                                                                                                                                                                      
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 
                                                                                                                                                                              **X\ 1** = largest contributor - unweighted                                                                                                                                                                                                        
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 
                                                                                                                                                                              **X\ 2** = second largest contributor - unweighted                                                                                                                                                                                                 
======================================================================= ==================== =============================================== ================================ =================================================================================================================================================================================================== ================================= ============= ==============================================================

2. **Outputs from cells with both positive and negative responses**

======================================================================= ==================== =============================================== ================================ ================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================ ================================= ============= ==============================================================
**Variable definition**                                                 **Type of variable** **Format of specific variable (if applicable)** **Expected range of the values** **Meaning of the values**                                                                                                                                                                                                                        **Expected level of aggregation** **Frequency** **Comments**
======================================================================= ==================== =============================================== ================================ ================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================ ================================= ============= ==============================================================
1.                                                                      Cell totals                                                          All                              *Is the weighted cell total (*\ **T**\ *) zero or rounded to zero?*                                                                                                                                                                                                                              *Cell is safe if it meets the condition and can be published.*
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              
All cells in defined table                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     *If condition not met go to 2*
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              
Table can be up to 4? Dimensions. Each variable can include hierarchies                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       
2.                                                                      Cell totals                                                          All                              **Threshold rule**                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               *Cell is not safe. Requires protection.*
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              
All cells in defined table not accounted for in 1                                                                                                                             Is the number of **enterprise groups** (that contribute a non-zero value to the cell) within the cell less than **3** if the cell is sampled, less than **5** if the entire population is surveyed?                                                                                              *If condition not met go to 3*
3.                                                                      Cell totals                                                          All                              Are the data rounded so that the rounding base of the outputs is greater than or equal to **25**\ % of the absolute value of the weighted cell total (**T**)?                                                                                                                                    *Cell is safe if it meets the condition and can be published.*
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              
All cells in 2 which pass the threshold rule                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   *If condition not met go to 4*
4.                                                                      Cell totals                                                          All                              Is the largest contribution (**X\ 1**) estimated?                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                *Cell is safe if it meets the condition and can be published.*
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              
All cells not accounted for in 3                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               *If condition not met go to 5*
5.                                                                      Cell totals                                                          All                              Are there at least 20 **enterprise groups** contributing to the cell (**excluding the largest two**) that, after weighting, have a **combined absolute value** of at least **25**\ % of the absolute **value** of the weighted cell total **T**?                                                 *If condition not met go to 6*
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              
All cells not accounted for in 4                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               *If condition met go to 7*
6.                                                                      Cell totals                                                          All                              Is the absolute value of [(**T**-**X\ 1**-**X\ 2**)/\ **X\ 1**] greater than or equal to **0.1**?                                                                                                                                                                                                *If condition not met then is unsafe and requires protection*
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              
All cells not passing the rule in 5                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            *If condition met go to 7*
7.                                                                      Cell totals                                                          All                              Is the weighted total **T** positive and **X\ 1** negative or vice versa?                                                                                                                                                                                                                        *Cell is safe if it meets the condition and can be published.*
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              
All cells which pass rule 6                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    *If condition not met go to 8*
8.                                                                      Cell totals                                                          All                              If both **T** and **X\ 1** are positive:                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         *Cell is safe if it meets the condition and can be published.*
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              
All cells which fail rule 6                                                                                                                                                   is **X\ 1** < 0.9\ **T** *or* **X\ 1** > 1.1\ **T**?                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             *If not, then cell requires protection.*
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              
                                                                                                                                                                              If both **T** and **X\ 1** are negative:                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              
                                                                                                                                                                              is **X\ 1** > 0.9\ **T** *or* **X\ 1** < 1.1\ **T**?                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            
======================================================================= ==================== =============================================== ================================ ================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================ ================================= ============= ==============================================================

**Ensuring the table can be published**

================================================ ==================== =============================================== ================================ =========================================================================================================================== ================================= ============= ==================================================================================
**Variable definition**                          **Type of variable** **Format of specific variable (if applicable)** **Expected range of the values** **Meaning of the values**                                                                                                   **Expected level of aggregation** **Frequency** **Comments**
================================================ ==================== =============================================== ================================ =========================================================================================================================== ================================= ============= ==================================================================================
A fully protected table suitable for publication Cell Totals                                                          All                              Carry out secondary suppression to ensure no cells failing the primary rules can be found by differencing                                                                   *Ideally automated using a program such as Tau-Argus but manually if necessary.*
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   *Aim is to produce a table which maximises utility and minimises disclosure risk.*
\                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 
A revised table suitable for protection          Cell Totals                                                          All                              Recode the table by combining variable categories to ensure no cells failing the primary rules can be found by differencing                                                
================================================ ==================== =============================================== ================================ =========================================================================================================================== ================================= ============= ==================================================================================

Statistical Process Flow/Formal Definition
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Flow charts for positive only and positive/negative responses can be
found in these links. These charts show the approach to follow for
identifying disclosive cells.

**Positive**

https://share.sp.ons.statistics.gov.uk/sites/MTH/Admin/TeaMan/Statistical_Disclosure_Control/Technical_Papers/Flowchart%20positive%20values%20(for%20SML).pptx

**Positive / negative**

https://share.sp.ons.statistics.gov.uk/sites/MTH/Admin/TeaMan/Statistical_Disclosure_Control/Technical_Papers/Flowchart%20positive%20and%20negative%20values(for%20SML).pptx

**Detailed Methodology**

More detail on the Input and Output requirements and the method of
disclosure control can be found here.

https://share.sp.ons.statistics.gov.uk/sites/MTH/Admin/TeaMan/Statistical_Disclosure_Control/Technical_Papers/Statistical%20Disclosure%20Control%20for%20magnitude%20tables%20from%20Business%20surveys%20(for%20SML).docx

.. _section-2:

Worked Example
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

A worked example of the mixed positive/negatives values flowchart can be
found in this link. This covers the stage consisting of Identifying
disclosive cells in the table.

Examples of how to protect the table, using suppression and table
redesign, following the identification of these cells can be found in
the document referenced in the Method Specification section.

https://share.sp.ons.statistics.gov.uk/sites/MTH/Admin/TeaMan/Statistical_Disclosure_Control/Technical_Papers/Worked%20example%20for%20positive%20negative%20flowchart%20(for%20SML).docx

Scenarios to be Tested
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

-  Can linked tables be protected? Carry out secondary suppression on
   multiple table which share a variable. Protecting two tables may work
   but there might be issue with secondary suppression when suppressing
   more tables.

-  Can the methodology be adapted for batch processing of tables rather
   than applying disclosure control to each table separately?

Treatment of Special Cases
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

-  Most publications will need to be consistent with those from previous
   years. If the cells are disclosive each year then the secondary
   suppression pattern should also remain the same.

-  Ad hoc publication request will need to be checked alongside regular
   publications to ensure that disclosure by differencing is not an
   issue. As an example, a request for a Geography variable with
   non-standard categories could result in data for a small area being
   published.

-  Table publication. If there is no secondary suppression solution
   obtainable in a specified length of time, then either recode the
   table as described or do not publish.

.. _section-3:

Example (Synthetic) Data 
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

*This section should contain links to synthetic input and output data*

.. _section-4:

Code
~~~~

*To be completed after implementation, this section should:*

-  *Provide a link to the implementing code in the SML repository.*

-  *Provide code examples demonstrating how to call a method. Typically
   these would cover each of the four supported languages: Java, Python,
   R and Scala.*

Issues for Consideration
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

*Detail any relevant considerations to be aware of that haven’t been
covered in the rest of the specification.*

Links
~~~~~

*Use this section to provide relevant links, for example:*

-  *Related SML issues in JIRA.*

-  *Link to prototype code in GitLab (if available).*

-  *Link to a reference implementation (if available).*

References
~~~~~~~~~~

**Background**

1. This handbook gives technical advice on all aspects of disclosure
   control not just tabular outputs. It will be of use to those with an
   interest in any area of data confidentiality.

..

   Statistical Disclosure Control; `A.
   Hundepool <https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/action/doSearch?ContribAuthorStored=Hundepool%2C+Anco>`__,
   `J.
   Domingo‐Ferrer <https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/action/doSearch?ContribAuthorStored=Domingo-Ferrer%2C+Josep>`__,
   `L.
   Franconi <https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/action/doSearch?ContribAuthorStored=Franconi%2C+Luisa>`__,
    `S.
   Giessing <https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/action/doSearch?ContribAuthorStored=Giessing%2C+Sarah>`__,
    E.Schulte Nordholt,
   `K.Spicer <https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/action/doSearch?ContribAuthorStored=Spicer%2C+Keith>`__,
   `P.‐P. de
   Wolf <https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/action/doSearch?ContribAuthorStored=de+Wolf%2C+Peter-Paul>`__
   (Wiley; 2012)

   https://www.wiley.com/en-gb/Statistical+Disclosure+Control-p-9781119978152

2. An internal ONS glossary (not yet available on the website) with
   definitions relating to disclosure control and data confidentiality.

..

   https://share.sp.ons.statistics.gov.uk/sites/MTH/Admin/TeaMan/Statistical_Disclosure_Control/Technical_Papers/Glossary%20updated%20Latest_Bookmarked2.docx

3. GSS guidance on protecting tables from surveys. This is the publicly
   available overview with a framework to follow to ensure the outputs
   are protected. Disclosure control methodology is mentioned but there
   is not the level of technical detail that is available in the SML
   documentation. It is currently being revised.

..

   https://gss.civilservice.gov.uk/policy-store/gssgsr-disclosure-control-guidance-for-tables-produced-from-surveys/

4. An old flowchart as used by some business areas. This contains the
   original structure on which the SML documentation expands.

..

   https://share.sp.ons.statistics.gov.uk/sites/MTH/Admin/TeaMan/Statistical_Disclosure_Control/Technical_Papers/Standard%20flow%20chart(for%20SML).docx

**Secondary Suppression**

After finding the disclosive cells, one method of completing the
protection of the table is to apply secondary suppression.
Methodological details are here.

5. Application of secondary suppression - Hypercube

..

   https://www.researchgate.net/publication/221307129_Tools_and_Strategies_to_Protect_Multiples_Tables_with_the_GHQUAR_Cell_Suppression_Engine

6. Application of secondary suppression – HiTaS (modular)

..

   https://www.researchgate.net/publication/221307131_HiTaS_A_Heuristic_Approach_to_Cell_Suppression_in_Hierarchical_Tables

**Proposed Methodology**

7. This was developed following discussions with business areas relating
   to their outputs. A summary can be found here.

..

   https://share.sp.ons.statistics.gov.uk/sites/MTH/Admin/TeaMan/Statistical_Disclosure_Control/Technical_Papers/Summary%20of%20Data%20Analysis%20Reports%20Final.docx

.. _section-5:

Appendix (optional)
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

This section should include:

-  Details not covered in the “\ *Background*\ ” section.

-  The variable description tables discussed in the sections “\ *Input
   Data*\ ” and “\ *Output Data*\ ”



